The Galton Bridge is a cast-iron bridge in Smethwick, near Birmingham, in central England. 
Opened in 1829 as a road bridge, the structure has been pedestrianised since the 1970s. It was 
built by Thomas Telford to carry a road across the new main line of the Birmingham Canal, 
which was built in a deep cutting. The bridge is 70 ft (21 m) above the canal, making it 
reputedly the highest single-span arch bridge in the world when it was built, 26 ft (7.9 m) 
wide, and 150 ft (46 m) long. The Galton Bridge is in cast iron, forged at the nearby Horseley 
Ironworks, with masonry abutments. The design includes decorative lamp-posts and X-shaped 
bracing in the spandrels.

In the 1840s, a railway bridge was built from one of the abutments, with a parapet in keeping 
with the original. The Galton Bridge carried traffic for over 140 years until it was bypassed 
by a new road, named Telford Way, in the 1970s, and now only carries pedestrians and cyclists. 
The scheme involved burying the canal in a tunnel, which was named Galton Tunnel. The bridge 
is one of six built by Telford that share common design features and the only one still 
standing without modification. It underwent minor repair work in the 1980s, after which it was 
repainted from its original black into a colour scheme intended to enhance its features. It is 
maintained by the Canal and River Trust and lends its name to the nearby Smethwick Galton 
Bridge railway station. It is a grade I listed building.

The original Birmingham Canal was built from the late 1760s along a meandering route, 
connecting Birmingham to Wolverhampton via the Black Country coalfields. One of the major 
obstacles on the route was a patch of high ground at Smethwick, roughly 4 miles (6.4 
kilometres) west of Birmingham. The engineers had originally planned to tunnel through, but 
discovered that the ground conditions were not suitable. Thus, the canal was carried over the 
hill by a flight of locks.

By the 1820s, canal traffic had grown enormously and its narrowness was causing congestion. 
The summit at Smethwick was short and bordered by locks at each end; as a result, it was 
common for long queues of boats to form at either end and fights often broke out among boat 
crews. Improvements had been mooted for years, though the immediate catalyst for investment 
was a proposal for a railway connecting Birmingham to Liverpool via Wolverhampton. The canal 
proprietors consulted Thomas Telford, the most eminent canal engineer of the day, and he 
designed a new, straighter route (known as the New Main Line, the original canal becoming the 
Old Main Line) which significantly reduced the length of the canal. This scheme involved 
the excavation of an artificial valley through the high ground in Smethwick. The bridge was 
named after Samuel Tertius Galton, a local businessman and major investor in the Birmingham 
Canal Company.

Three local roads were severed by the work, two of which were replaced with traditional 
masonry bridges, but Roebuck Lane was to cross the cutting at its widest and deepest point. 
Like all the bridges on the new route, it needed to span the canal without obstructing the 
waterway or the towpaths. Hence, Telford considered a lighter structure was necessary.
Telford was a pioneer in the use of cast iron and became famed for his bridges and aqueducts 
using the material, which he discovered could be used to create wider spans than had 
previously been possible using masonry or stone. Cast iron is brittle under tension but 
strong under compression; in bridge construction, it tended to be used in arch form. The 
world's first iron bridge opened in Shropshire fifty years before the Galton Bridge. Engineers 
including Telford spent the rest of the 18th century and much of the 19th refining the 
construction methods.