How Brown Saw the Baseball Game is an American short silent comedy film 
produced in 1907 and distributed by the Lubin Manufacturing Company. 
The film follows a baseball fan named Mr. Brown who drinks large quantities 
of alcohol before a baseball game and becomes so intoxicated that the game 
appears to him in reverse motion. During production, trick photography was used 
to achieve this effect.

The film was released in November 1907. It received a positive review in a 1908
issue of The Courier-Journal that reported the film was successful and "truly
funny." As of 2021, it is unclear whether a print of the film has survived.
The identities of the film's cast and production crew are unknown. Film 
historians have noted similarities between the plot of How Brown Saw the
Baseball Game and the Edwin S. Porter-directed comedy film How the Office Boy
Saw the Ball Game released the previous year.

How Brown Saw the Baseball Game is an American short silent comedy film produced
in 1907 and distributed by the Lubin Manufacturing Company. The film follows a
baseball fan named Mr. Brown who drinks large quantities of alcohol before a
baseball game and becomes so intoxicated that the game appears to him in 
reverse motion. During production, trick photography was used to achieve this
effect.

The film was released in November 1907. It received a positive review in a 1908
issue of The Courier-Journal that reported the film was successful and "truly 
funny." As of 2021, it is unclear whether a print of the film has survived. The 
identities of the film's cast and production crew are unknown. Film historians 
have noted similarities between the plot of How Brown Saw the Baseball Game and 
the Edwin S. Porter-directed comedy film How the Office Boy Saw the Ball Game 
released the previous year.

How Brown Saw the Baseball Game was produced by Lubin Manufacturing Company, 
a company founded by German-American film pioneer Siegmund Lubin. At the time 
How Brown Saw the Baseball Game was made, the company was creating and 
distributing up to three films a week. The identities of How Brown Saw the 
Baseball Game's director and cast are not known.

It is a silent film shot in black and white, and the finished product comprised 
350 feet (110 m) of film. For the scenes which took place at the ballpark, the 
filmmakers used a form of trick photography to show the baseball players running 
backwards. Siegmund Lubin filed a copyright for the film on October 26, 1907, 
under the title How Jones Saw the Baseball Game.

How Brown Saw the Baseball Game was released to theaters by Lubin Manufacturing 
Company on November 16, 1907, and was still being shown as late as January 1910. 
During this time, the film was sometimes presented as part of a double feature 
with the 1907 film Neighbors Who Borrow, a short comedy film about a man who 
lends nearly everything he owns to his neighbors until his wife returns home and 
berates him for doing so.

Advertisements for the film touted it as "such fun", and Lubin himself promoted 
the film as a "screamingly funny farce". It received a positive review 
in a June 1908 issue of The Courier-Journal which described the film as "truly 
funny" and that it proved to be "a veritable hit".

Modern writings have often suggested that How Brown Saw the Baseball Game was 
produced as Lubin Manufacturing Company's alternative to the Edwin S. Porter-
directed comedy How the Office Boy Saw the Ball Game, a film released by 
Edison Studios in 1906 about an office employee sneaking out of his 
workplace to watch a baseball game only to discover his employer in a nearby 
seat. Lubin Manufacturing Company was known for creating films similar to 
competing motion pictures made by other studios. Lubin had previously created 
films resembling Edison Studios' releases Uncle Tom's Cabin and The Great Train 
Robbery. Author Jack Spears wrote in his book Hollywood: The Golden Era that 
How Brown Saw the Baseball Game and How the Office Boy Saw the Ball Game "used 
practically the same plot"; Rob Elderman's article "The Baseball Film: to 
1920" in the journal Base Ball likewise notes the similarities of their 
plotlines.

As of February 2021, it is unclear whether there is a surviving print of How 
Brown Saw the Baseball Game; it has likely become a lost film. If rediscovered, 
the film would be in the public domain.
